PCG Migrate (#4689)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/clusters/pcg/manage-pcg/migrate_pcg.md

---
sidebar_label: "Migrate a PCG"
title: "Migrate a PCG"
description: "Learn why, when, and how to migrate an existing Private Cloud Gateway (PCG) to a differnt PCG."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 50
tags: ["pcg"]
---

Clusters deployed through a Private Cloud Gateway (PCG) maintain a reference point to the PCG that deployed them. This

> reference point is needed so that Palette knows what PCG to use when the cluster needs to be removed. A Cluster API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reference point is required for Palette to know which PCG to use when the cluster needs to be removed. A Cluster API
```
maybe? :)

> reference point is needed so that Palette knows what PCG to use when the cluster needs to be removed. A Cluster API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reference point is needed so that Palette knows what PCG to use when the cluster needs to be removed. 
A Cluster API
```
I would start a new paragraph here.

pivot occurs between the PCG and the cluster during a cluster deployment and removal. In a cluster creation, the pivot
occurs from the PCG to the cluster. In a cluster removal, the Cluster API pivot occurs from the cluster to the PCG.

> Check out the [Order of Operations](../../../architecture/orchestration-spectrocloud.md) to learn more about the Cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out the [Order of Operations](../../../architecture/orchestration-spectrocloud.md) page to learn more about the Cluster
```

cluster's PCG reference point by using the Palette API endpoint `GET /v1/spectroclusters/:uid`. The response payload's
`metadata.annotations.overlordUid` field contains the ID of the PCG that deployed the cluster.

```json hideClipboard {5}
{
    "metadata": {
        "annotations": {
            "jetUid": "***********************",
            "overlordUid": "6732677ce46389af646d517a",
            "ownerUid": "***********************",
            "palette.spectrocloud.com/disablenodeautoremidiation": "false",
            "permissions": "cluster.create,cluster.delete,cluster.get,cluster.import,cluster.list,cluster.update,tag.update",
            "projectUid": "***********************",
            "rootDomain": "console.spectrocloud.com",
            "scope": "project",
            "scopeVisibility": "16",
            "spectroComponentsUpgradeForbidden": "true",
            "tenantUid": "***********************"
        },
```

<details>
<summary>How do I get my PCG's `overlordUid`?</summary>

The `overlordUid` is a unique identifier of the PCG that deployed the cluster. However, this value is different from the

> actual cluster ID of the PCG. To retrieve a PCG cluster's `overlordUid` use the following kubectl command on the PCG

Reviewer: ```suggestion
actual cluster ID of the PCG. To retrieve a PCG cluster's `overlordUid`, use the following kubectl command on the PCG
```

cluster.

```shell
kubectl get configmap overlord-config --namespace=jet-system --output=jsonpath='{.data.overlord-config\.yaml}' | grep 'overlordUid:' | sed 's/overlordUid: //'
```

You will get the `overlordUid` of the PCG cluster.

```text hideClipboard
6732677ce46389af646d517a
```

</details>

## What is a PCG migration?

> A PCG migration is an action that updates the PCG reference point mapping in Palette of the PCG deployed clusters. All

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A PCG migration is an action that updates the PCG reference point mapping in Palette for clusters deployed by a specific PCG. All
```
maybe?

clusters deployed by the original PCG will be updated to reference a new PCG. This action is internal to the Palette
management plane. The migration process is necessary when you want to remove the existing PCG. The ability to migrate a
PCG is helpful in scenarios such as:

- Decommissioning an existing PCG.

- PCG upgrade errors.

:::warning

A PCG migration is an irreversible action. Once a PCG is migrated, the original PCG is no longer associated with the
clusters that it deployed.

:::

> Use the following steps to migrate a PCG to a different PCG.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following steps to update the PCG reference point mapping to a different PCG.
```
I know (from a UI point of view) that we click on `migrate PCG`, but this sentence is a bit confusing :face_with_peeking_eye:

## Prerequisites

> - Tenant admin access to the Palette.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Tenant admin access to Palette.
```

> - At least two healthy PCG with network connectivity to the Palette management plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- At least two healthy PCGs with network connectivity to the Palette management plane.
```

- The new PCG must target the same infrastructure provider as the existing PCG.

## Migrate PCG

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com) as a tenant administrator.

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Tenant Settings**.

3. Select **Private Cloud Gateways** from the **Tenant Settings Menu**.

4. In the list of PCGs, identify the PCG that you want to migrate and click on the **three-dot Menu** at the end of the
   PCG row.

5. Select **Migrate** from the **drop-down Menu**.

> 6. In the **Migrate Cloud Gateway** dialog box, select the a PCG from the **PCG** drop-down list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. In the **Migrate Cloud Gateway** dialog box, select the PCG from the **PCG** drop-down list that you want to migrate to.
```

7. Click **Migrate**.

We recommend you remove the cloud account created by the PCG that you migrated. This will prevent any future cluster
deployments from using the cloud account associated with the migrated PCG. During a cluster deployment, if you

> accidentally select the cloud account mapped to the former PCG. Palette will automatically ensure the newly specified

Reviewer: ```suggestion
accidentally select the cloud account mapped to the former PCG, Palette will automatically ensure the newly specified
```

> PCG is used as a PCG reference point instead of the former PCG that belongs to the cloud account selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PCG is used as the PCG reference point instead of the former PCG that belongs to the cloud account selected.
```

## Validate

> After the migration is complete, you can validate the migration by checking a cluster deployed with the migrated PCG no
> longer referencing the old PCG. Use the Palette API endpoint `GET /v1/spectroclusters/:uid` and verify the
> `metadata.annotations.overlordUid` field to ensure that the cluster now references the new PCG.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the migration is complete, you can validate it by checking that a cluster deployed with the migrated PCG no
longer references the old PCG. Use the Palette API endpoint `GET /v1/spectroclusters/:uid` and verify the
`metadata.annotations.overlordUid` field to ensure that the cluster now references the new PCG.
```

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and click **Clusters**.

> 3. Click on a cluster that was deployed by the PCG that you migrated. Take note of the cluster ID. You can find the ID
>    in the URL of the browser. It is the last part of the URL after the `/clusters/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click on a cluster that was deployed by the PCG that you migrated. Take note of the cluster ID. You can find the ID
   in the URL of the browser. It is the last part of the URL, located after `/clusters/`.
```
